even though were trained for this legacy
were trained for it here regularly we
have drills every week and I never ever
thought this would happen and it's
ironic that Tim just as we were leaving
the platform like I say we have ter am
we have to turn the TB or the total
blackout key and one of my colleagues
with me that was the exact words they
said to me he says that this is a bet
you thought you'd never have to do this
in your life and i said no i didn't and
at that point with retardant achieve and
both left for the helicopter and but no
I although were trained for it in
betrayin well were trained for it and we
always hope that we've never got to do
it and and fortunately in this case the
train and was was most useful the first
damn from when I first Olaf when the
first alarm am was sounded from the
incident start and we hide am within one
hour we heard the helicopter unseen and
within one hour after that we had 107
people evacuated and an hour after that
we had the fool 230 people evacuate a
220 I beg upon him we deliberately kept
19 people on board the platform and to
evaluate the situation and to see if
there's anything that we could do and
really to maintain the systems up and
running and so long as the platform
estelle live Android power we could
maintain wicked am we could monitor the
firing gasps am status on the platform
we knew that once we turned the key to
switch everything off all that was lost
and when that information was invaluable
in trying to determine what the cause of
the incident was the hardest decision
was em when we had 19 people on board we
had to make a call whether we had to go
so far we had to stay and and making
that decision was definitely the hardest
once the decision was made it was quite
easy and once it was made we knew
exactly what we were going to do but
here making that call for the Bastille
or whether to go certainly was tough
tough decision once we'd properly
evaluate the situation is there anything
we could do to
to improve the situation that became
clear quite early that wasn't going to
happen and so what we were doing is we
were maintaining life support system
maintaining filing gas and when the
systems are all up and running the
communication goes back to the beach so
the people on shore could see that
communication they could see the
pressures the temperatures what was
happening with the well and not give
them good information to try and
evaluate what the cause of the incident
was and so that was really the main
reasons why we why we stayed on board
and while that Tim if we had any
escalation at all on the platform we
were confident absolutely confident that
we could have been off the platform in
five minutes by life board one of the
things that the 19 of us did we all
practiced our lifeboat drill and we
checked the lifeboat was trapped
ourselves into it and just got familiar
with the harnesses and if the system if
they're well the incident escalated and
we couldn't get helicopter and we were
confident that we could get off in the
lifeboat within five minutes break
easily the weather was fine the way that
was good the sea state was calm him so
it really didn't him it didn't impose
any additional risk or additional rest
but should I see it wasn't an
unacceptable risk to go by boat thing is
demonstrated the whole thing is
demonstrated that our procedures are
good our process is good and although we
never want these things to happen when
it does have and this clearly
demonstrates that no the safety of the
people is of paramount priority